README.md, before:

Below you'll find a number of learning activities focused on different areas of science and different aspects of our Earth. Have fun exploring!

-----

## Geology

> Geology is the science that studies what the Earth is made of and the
forces that act on it.

- [**Watch**: Mrs. Ronquillo teaches the Rock Cycle](https://youtu.be/Q9TT44EG8RQ)
- [**Do**: Rock cycle worksheet](./Rock%20Cycle.pdf)
- [**Do**: Grow candy rocks!](http://www.minimegeology.com/blog/2009/06/09/growing-rock-candy-crystals-a-sweet-fun-science-experiment/)

-----

## Astrophysics

> Astrophysics is the study of stars and other celestial bodies, and the
application of the laws of physics to observations of space.

- [**Watch**: How we study space [TED-Ed video]](https://ed.ted.com/lessons/how-do-we-study-the-stars-yuan-sen-ting)
- [**Do**: Take a look at the night sky above us with this map [map by Skymaps.com]](http://www.skymaps.com/downloads.html)
- [**Do**: Make a cosmos jar with Mrs. Harvey](https://youtu.be/UWBDnc6G-uQ)

-----

## Ecology

> Ecology is the science studying the relationship of animals to each
other and their environment.

- [**Watch & Do**: Explore some Earth School challenges! [TED-Ed & UNEP]](https://ed.ted.com/earth-school)

-----

## Zoology

> Zoology is the science that studies animals, both living and extinct, and how they interact with their ecosystems.

- [**Watch & Do**: Explore Zoology [Mystery Science lesson]](https://mysteryscience.com/biodiversity/mystery-1/biodiversity-classification/174?code=NDEwMDY3MDQ&t=student)

-----

## Archaeology

> Archaeology is the scientific study of past human life and culture.

Archeologists have been studying the Egyptian pyramids for decades and are still uncovering new discoveries.

- [**Do**: Take a tour of Pharaoh Ramesses VI tomb](https://my.matterport.com/show/?m=NeiMEZa9d93&mls=1&fclid=IwAR053EhtaZTCi0T3Ezn4zP1NMK-KAocmDsv8BBHFdcGVQGcwXEq3oFQ_0ck)

-----

## Anatomy

> Anatomy is the study of the body and how it works.

How does your body protect itself when you get sick?

- [**Watch**: Learn how your body fights illness [TED-Ed video]](https://youtu.be/oqGuJhOeMek)

-----

## Oceanography

> Oceanography: Study of the world’s Oceans

Some of the greatest mysteries that remain on Earth are hidden in the world’s oceans.  Oceanographers are working to solve those mysteries.

- [**Watch**: Learn how we study the oceans [TED-Ed video]](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U69LIr0OrNc)

-----

## Science Projects

### Chromatography

For this project you will need:

- A coffee filter
- Washable markers
- Squirt bottle with water
- A paper plate

[**Watch & Do**: Make colors blend with Mrs. Breitling](https://youtu.be/-qR_XnZYTFw)

### Amazing Bouncing Egg

An egg can bounce?! How does it work?  Can you make it happen?

[**Watch & Do**: Make an amazing bouncing egg with Mrs. Breitling](https://youtu.be/Rp_naORMCno)

### Sink or Float: An Egg Experiment

Do you think an egg sinks or floats in water? Is there a way you can change what it does?

[**Watch & Do**: Follow along with Mrs. Breitling](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=svELGwT5Dqk&feature=youtu.be)

-----

Parents, please don't hesitate to [contact Mrs. Harvey](mailto:katherine.harvey@stpsb.org?subject=Earth%20%26%20Science%20Day%20question) if you have questions.

Commit message:

Updates for 2021 Earth & Science Day

README.md, after:

Below you'll find a number of learning activities focused on different areas of science and different aspects of our Earth. Have fun exploring!

-----

## Architecture

> Architecture is the science of designing and building structures, especially ones
that support living in our communities.

- [**Watch**: What Makes Brides So Strong? (SciShow Kids)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oVOnRPefcno)
- [**Watch & Do**: Design & Build Paper Bridges](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFZGmHbjLSM)
- [**Watch**: Architecture Adventure (Crash Course Kids)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkJLbCCI6Zs)
- [**Watch**: Making Buildings Better Withstand Earthquakes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c25HuZeQsyo)

## Geology

> Geology is the science that studies what the Earth is made of and the
forces that act on it.

- [**Watch**: Mrs. Ronquillo teaches the Rock Cycle](https://youtu.be/Q9TT44EG8RQ)
- [**Do**: Rock cycle worksheet](./Rock%20Cycle.pdf)
- [**Do**: Grow candy rocks!](http://www.minimegeology.com/blog/2009/06/09/growing-rock-candy-crystals-a-sweet-fun-science-experiment/)

-----

## Astrophysics

> Astrophysics is the study of stars and other celestial bodies, and the
application of the laws of physics to observations of space.

- [**Watch**: How we study space [TED-Ed video]](https://ed.ted.com/lessons/how-do-we-study-the-stars-yuan-sen-ting)
- [**Do**: Take a look at the night sky above us with this map [map by Skymaps.com]](http://www.skymaps.com/downloads.html)
- [**Do**: Make a cosmos jar with Mrs. Harvey](https://youtu.be/UWBDnc6G-uQ)

-----

## Ecology

> Ecology is the science studying the relationship of animals to each
other and their environment.

- [**Watch & Do**: Explore some Earth School challenges! [TED-Ed & UNEP]](https://ed.ted.com/earth-school)

-----

## Zoology

> Zoology is the science that studies animals, both living and extinct, and how they interact with their ecosystems.

- [**Watch & Do**: Explore Zoology [Mystery Science lesson]](https://mysteryscience.com/biodiversity/mystery-1/biodiversity-classification/174?code=NDEwMDY3MDQ&t=student)

-----

## Archaeology

> Archaeology is the scientific study of past human life and culture.

Archeologists have been studying the Egyptian pyramids for decades and are still uncovering new discoveries.

- [**Do**: Take a tour of Pharaoh Ramesses VI tomb](https://my.matterport.com/show/?m=NeiMEZa9d93&mls=1&fclid=IwAR053EhtaZTCi0T3Ezn4zP1NMK-KAocmDsv8BBHFdcGVQGcwXEq3oFQ_0ck)

-----

## Anatomy

> Anatomy is the study of the body and how it works.

How does your body protect itself when you get sick?

- [**Watch**: Learn how your body fights illness [TED-Ed video]](https://youtu.be/oqGuJhOeMek)

-----

## Oceanography

> Oceanography: Study of the world’s Oceans

Some of the greatest mysteries that remain on Earth are hidden in the world’s oceans.  Oceanographers are working to solve those mysteries.

- [**Watch**: Learn how we study the oceans [TED-Ed video]](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U69LIr0OrNc)

-----

## Science Projects

### Chromatography

For this project you will need:

- A coffee filter
- Washable markers
- Squirt bottle with water
- A paper plate

[**Watch & Do**: Make colors blend with Mrs. Breitling](https://youtu.be/-qR_XnZYTFw)

### Amazing Bouncing Egg

An egg can bounce?! How does it work? Can you make it happen?

[**Watch & Do**: Make an amazing bouncing egg with Mrs. Breitling](https://youtu.be/Rp_naORMCno)

### Sink or Float: An Egg Experiment

Do you think an egg sinks or floats in water? Is there a way you can change what it does?

[**Watch & Do**: Follow along with Mrs. Breitling](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=svELGwT5Dqk&feature=youtu.be)

-----

Parents, please don't hesitate to [contact Mrs. Harvey](mailto:katherine.harvey@stpsb.org?subject=Earth%20%26%20Science%20Day%20question) if you have questions.
